Add HTTP Spec document (#115)
filecoin-project/lassie: docs/HTTP_SPEC.md

# Lassie: HTTP Specification

![wip](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-wip-orange.svg?style=flat-square)

**Author(s)**:

- [Hannah Howard](https://github.com/hannahhoward)
- [Kyle Huntsman](https://github.com/kylehuntsman)
- [Rod Vagg](https://github.com/rvagg)

**Maintainer(s)**:

- [Hannah Howard](https://github.com/hannahhoward)
- [Kyle Huntsman](https://github.com/kylehuntsman)
- [Rod Vagg](https://github.com/rvagg)

* * *

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Specification](#specification)
    - [`GET /ipfs/{cid}[?params]`](#get-ipfscidparams)

## Introduction

> The Lassie HTTP Daemon is an HTTP interface for retrieving CAR files from the Filecoin network. It fetches content via CIDs over a number of possible protocols, choosing the best protocol for the job.

Reviewer: This is a bit ambitious - "a number of possible protocols" and "choosing the best protocol for the job" are both aspirational

## Specification

### `GET /ipfs/{cid}[?params]`

> Retrieves from peers that have the given CID content, downloading as a CAR file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieves from peers that have the content identified by the given root CID, streaming the DAG in the response in [CAR (v1)](https://ipld.io/specs/transport/car/carv1/) format.
```

#### Request

##### Headers

- `Accept` - _Optional_. Used to specify the response content type. Optional only if a `format` query parameter is provided, otherwise required.

    If provided, the value must explicitly or implicitly include `application/vnd.ipld.car`.

- `X-Request-Id` - _Optional_. Used to provide a unique request value that can be correlated with a unique retrieval ID in the logs.

##### Path Parameters

> - `cid` - _Required_. The default string representation of the CID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `cid` - _Required_. A valid string representation of the root CID of the DAG being requested.
```

##### Query Parameters

> - `filename` - _Optional_. Used to override the name of the downloaded CAR file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `filename` - _Optional_. Used to override the `filename` property of the `Content-Disposition` response header which may dictate the default save filename for the response data used by an HTTP client / browser.
```

    The filename extension cannot be missing and must be `.car`.

- `format` - _Optional_. `format=<format>` can be used to specify the response content type. This is a URL-friendly alternative to providing an `Accept` header. Optional only if an `Accept` header value is provided, otherwise required.

    If provided, the format value must be `car`. Example: `format=car`.

    `format=car` &rarr; `Accept: application/vnd.ipld.car`

#### Response

#### Status Codes

- `200` - OK

- `400` - Bad Request
    - No acceptable content type provided in the `Accept` header
    - Requested a non-supported format via the `format` query parameter
    - Neither providing a valid `Accept` header or `format` query parameter
    - No extension given in `filename` query parameter
    - Used a non-supported extension in the `filename` query parameter

- `404` - No candidates for the given CID were found

- `500` - Internal Server Error
    - The given CID path parameter could not be parsed
    - An internal retrieval ID failed to generate

>     - The CAR file failed to write

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The internal blockstore file failed to write
```

Reviewer: for user purposes, this failure is just from the initial, internal-only blockstore, the fact that it's a CAR is inconsequential, what the user gets is a separate thing.

also it sucks that we even have to deal with this thing, but we'll find a way to get rid of it eventually

- `504` - Timeout occured while retrieving the given CID

##### Headers

> - `Accept-Ranges` - Returns with `none` if the block order in the CAR stream is not deterministic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Accept-Ranges` - Returns with `none` if the block order in the CAR stream is not deterministic
```

oh? doesn't it always return `none` for now? since we'll eventually accept range requests (I assume) I guess this will then always _not_ be `none`?

Author: Right. That was honestly one of the hard parts of putting this together. We implement things in the IPFS spec that don't really apply to us at the moment.

- `Cache-Control` - Returns with `public, max-age=29030400, immutable`

> - `Content-Disposition` - Returns as an attachment, using the given `filename` query parameter if provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Content-Disposition` - Returns as an attachment, using the given `filename` query parameter if provided, or if no `filename` query parameter is provided, uses the requested CID with `.car` appended.
```

# Lassie: HTTP Specification

![wip](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-wip-orange.svg?style=flat-square)

**Author(s)**:

- [Hannah Howard](https://github.com/hannahhoward)
- [Kyle Huntsman](https://github.com/kylehuntsman)
- [Rod Vagg](https://github.com/rvagg)

**Maintainer(s)**:

- [Hannah Howard](https://github.com/hannahhoward)
- [Kyle Huntsman](https://github.com/kylehuntsman)
- [Rod Vagg](https://github.com/rvagg)

* * *

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Specification](#specification)
    - [`GET /ipfs/{cid}[?params]`](#get-ipfscidparams)

## Introduction

> The Lassie HTTP Daemon is an HTTP interface for retrieving CAR files from the Filecoin network. It fetches content via CIDs over the GraphSync and Bitswap protocols.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Lassie HTTP Daemon is an HTTP interface for retrieving IPLD data from IPFS and Filecoin peers. It fetches content over the GraphSync and Bitswap protocols and provides the resulting data in CAR format.
```
